Q1 What is an Operating System and what all functions are provided by Operating System?
Ans :  Operating System is a software that faciliated an interface between machine and user.
	 
	functions of OS are : 
1.Security – 
2.Memory Management –
3.Processor Management –
4.Device Management – 
5.File Management – 
6.Coordination between other software and users –
and so on...

Q2 What is a process? Explain Priority Scheduling and Round Robin(RR) Scheduling algorithms.

Ans :  In Operating system we define any process as a program in execution or instance of a program of the system, program is a static term however process means a running or active entity.

	Priority Scheduling : - It is an algo that define which task is going to execute by the operating system . Are are some set of step based on which this algo work .
1.Each process is assigned a priority. Process with highest priority is to be executed
first and so on.
2.Processes with same priority are executed on first come first served basis.
3.Priority can be decided based on memory requirements, time requirements or any
other resource requirement.

	Round Robin(RR) Scheduling : This is the preemptive version of first come first serve scheduling. The Algorithm focuses on Time Sharing. In this algorithm, every process gets executed in a cyclic way. A certain time slice is defined in the system which is called time quantum. Each process present in the ready queue is assigned the CPU for that time quantum, if the execution of the process is completed during that time then the process will terminate else the process will go back to the ready queue and waits for the next turn to complete the execution.


 Q3 List some basic features of Linux Operating System
	Portable
	Open Source
	Multi-User
	Multiprogramming
	Hierarchical File System
	Shell
	Security
Q4 What is Kernel in Linux ?
	Kernel − It is the core component of Operating System, interacts directly with
hardware, provides low level services to upper layer components.


 	