1 Explain what HTTP is and how it is Unidirectional?

Stands for "Hypertext Transfer Protocol." HTTP is the protocol used to transfer data
over the web. It is part of the Internet protocol suite and defines commands and
services used for transmitting webpage data. HTTP uses a server-client model. A client,
for example, may be a home computer, laptop, or mobile device
HTTP is unidirectional where the client sends the request and the server sends the response.

What is IPv4 and IPv6
	IPv4:- IPv4 is a version 4 of IP. It is a current version and the most commonly used IP address.
It is a 32-bit address written in four numbers separated by 'dot', i.e., periods. This
address is unique for each device.For example, 66.94.29.13
The above example represents the IP address in which each group of numbers
separated by periods is called an Octet. Each number in an octet is in the range from 0-
255. This address can produce 4,294,967,296 possible unique addresses.

IPv6 is the next generation of IP addresses. The main difference between IPv4 and
IPv6 is the address size of IP addresses. The IPv4 is a 32-bit address, whereas IPv6 is
a 128-bit hexadecimal address.IPv6 provides a large address space, and it contains a
simple header as compared to IPv4.
This hexadecimal address contains both numbers and alphabets. Due to the usage of
both the numbers and alphabets, IPv6 is capable of producing over 340 undecillion
addresses. IPv6 is a 128-bit hexadecimal address made up of 8 sets of 16 bits each,
and these 8 sets are separated by a colon.


Q.3 What is DNS?

The Domain Name System (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet. Humans access
information online through domain names, like nytimes.com or espn.com. Web
browsers interact through Internet Protocol (IP) addresses. DNS translates domain
names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources.Each device
connected to the Internet has a unique IP address which other machines use to find
the device. DNS servers eliminate the need for humans to memorize IP addresses
such as 192.168.1.1 (in IPv4), or more complex newer alphanumeric IP addresses
such as 2400:cb00:2048:1::c629:d7a2 (in IPv6).

Q.4 Explain what CDN is ?
CDN (Computer Delivery Network) is a system of distributed servers that deliver web
pages and other web content to a user based on the geographic locations of the
user, the origin of the webpage and a content delivery server.Suppose I am running
the website outside the UK and I am serving the website all around the world. When
the user wants to access my website, then they request to the web server, and users
from different countries will have different latency

Q.5 What is a DeadLock?
A Deadlock is a situation where each of the computer process waits for a resource
which is being assigned to some another process. In this situation, none of the process
gets executed since the resource it needs, is held by some other process which is also
waiting for some other resource to be released.
